this presentation is delivered by the
Stanford center for professional
development okay good morning welcome
back to um third to the third lecture of
this
class so here's what I want to do today
um and some of the topics I'll do today
may seem a little bit like I'm jumping
so from topic to topic but here's sort
of the outline for today and The Logical
flow of ideas um in the last lecture we
talked about linear regression and today
I want to talk about sort of an
adaptation of that called locally weight
of regression um it's actually a very
powerful algorithm that's actually one
of my uh former Mentor probably favorite
machine learning algorithm um we'll then
talk about the probalistic
interpretation of linear regression and
use that to um move on to our first
classification algorithm which is
logistic regression um take a brief
digression to tell you about something
called the perceptron alvim which is
something we'll come back to again later
this quarter and um time allowing I hope
to get to Newton's method which is which
is an Alm for fitting logistic
regression
models um so let's just recap what we're
talking about in the previous lecture um
remember the notation I defined was that
I used this x superscript
i y supercrip i to denote the I training
example and
um when we're talking about linear
regression or ordinary Le squares we use
this to denote the predicted value
output by my hypothesis h
um on the input XI and my hypothesis was
parameterized by um the vector
parameters Theta and so we said that
this was equal to sum
from right th
j i
j written most simply as the transvers X
and um we had the convention that X
subscript 0 is equal to one so this
accounts for The Intercept term in a
linear regression model
um and lowercase n here was the notation
I was using for the uh for the number of
features in my training set okay so in
the example we're trying to predict
housing prices if we had two features
the size of the house and number of
bedrooms um we had two features in and
was little n was equal to
two um
so just to finish recapping the previous
lecture we defined this quadratic cost
function J of theta equals 12 sum from I
= 1 to M
of x
i- y
i squared um where this is a sum over
our M training examples in my training
set so lowercase M was the notation I've
been using to denote the number of
training examples I have for the size of
my training set and um at the end of the
last lecture we derive the value of
theta that minimizes this in close form
um which Xpose X
inverse X transpose y
okay so
um as I move forward in today's lecture
I'll continue to use this notation and
again I realize this a fair amount of
notation to all remember um so if
partway through this lecture you forgot
you know if if you're having trouble
remembering what lowercase m is or what
lowercase n is or something please raise
your hand and ask
um when we talked about linear
regression last time um we used two
features one of the features was the
size of the house in square feet so the
living area of the house and the other
feature was the number of bedrooms in
the house um in general when you're out
there applying machine learning
algorithms to some problem that you care
about the choice of the features will
very much be up to you right and
um the way you choose your features to
give the learning Al will often have a
large impact on how actually does um so
just for
example the choice we made last time was
X1 equals to the size and and let's
let's let's leave aside the other
feature of the number of bedrooms for
now unless we don't have data that tells
us how many bedrooms around these
houses um one thing you could do is
actually Define oh draw this
out and so
right so let's say that was the size of
the holes and that's the price of the
Hol so if you
use this as a feature maybe you get you
know Theta 0 plus Theta 1 X1 this is the
linear
model
um if you choose just copy the same data
set
over right you can define a set of
features where X1 is equal to the size
of the
and X2
is the square of the size of the Hol
okay so X1 is the size of the house and
say square footage and X2 is just take
whatever the square footage of the house
is and just square that number and this
would be another way to come with a
feature and if you do that then the same
algorithm will end up
fitting a quadratic function for you um
the the 2 X1 2 okay because uh
this is actually
X2 and you know depending on what the
data looks like maybe this is a slightly
better fit to the
data
um you can actually take this even
further right which is let's see I have
seven training examples here so you can
actually
maybe fit up to a six order the
polinomial you can actually fit a model
Theta 0 plus Theta 1 X1 + Theta 2 x² +
up to Theta
6 x the^ of six and F the six4 the
polinomial um to these seven data points
and if you do that you you find that you
come with a model that fits your data
exactly because we have I guess in this
in this example I drew you know we have
seven data points and so if you fit a
six voled polinomial you can to fit a
line that passes through these seven
points perfectly um and you probably
find that the curve you get
is look maybe something like that um and
on the one hand this is a great model in
the sense that it fits your training
data perfectly um and on the other hand
this is probably not a very good model
in the sense that you know none of us
ser JY think that this is a very good
predictor of housing prices as a
function of the size of the house right
so we should come back to this later um
turns out of the models we have here I
feel like maybe the quadratic model fits
the data best um whereas the linear
model it looks like you know looks like
there's some looks like there's actually
a bit of a quadratic component in this
data that the linear function is not is
not capturing um so we actually come
back to this a little bit later and and
and talk about the problems associated
with fitting models that either too
simple or use two small set of features
all the models that are too complex and
maybe um use to large a set of features
um just to give these a name we call
this the problem of
underfitting and very informally this
refers to setting where there are
obvious patterns or where there are
patterns in the data that the algorithm
is just failing to fit and this problem
here we refer
to as
overfitting and again very informally
this is when the algum is fitting the
idiosyncrasies of this specific data set
right that it just so happens that of
the seven houses we sampled in you know
Portland or wherever you collect data
from um that house happen to be a bit
more expensive that house happen a
little less expensive and by fitting s
water polinomial was are fitting the ID
idiosyncratic properties of this data
set rather than the true underline
trends of how housing prices VAR as a
functional size of house okay so these
two very different problems we'll Define
them more formally later and talk about
how to address each of these problems um
but for now I hope you appreciate that
there is this issue of selecting
features
um
so if you want to choose features for
learning problems there there there are
few ways to do so um and we'll talk
about feature selection algorithms later
this quarter as well so automatic
algorithms are choosing what features to
use in a in a regression problem like
this um what I want to do today is talk
about the class of algorithms called
non-parametric learning algorithms that
will help to alleviate the need somewhat
for you to choose features very
carefully okay and this will lead us
into our discussion of um locally weight
to
regression
um let me just Define a term
um linear regression as we've defined it
so far is an example of a parametric
learning algorithm and um parametric
learning algorithm is one that's defined
as an algorithm that has a fixed number
of parameters that's fit to the data
okay so in linear regression we have to
fix set a parameters
data right that was fit to the
data in contrast what I'm going to talk
about now is our first non-parametric
learning
algorithm
um the formal definition which is which
is not very intuitive so I replace this
when a second something more intuitive
um the the the S the formal definition
of a non-p paramet learning algorithm is
that is an algorithm where the number of
parameters um
grows with M with the size of the
training set and usually it's defined as
the number of parameters grows linearly
with the size of the training set um
this is the formal definition a slightly
in slightly less formal definition is
that the amount of stuff you need the
amount of stuff that your learning
algori needs to keep around will grow
linearly with the training sets um or in
other words saying is that this is an
algorithm that will need to keep around
an entire training set even after
learning okay so don't worry too much
about this definition but what I want to
do now is describe um a specific
non-parametric learning algorithm called
weight of
regression um which also goes by a
couple of other names
uh which also goes by the name L for S
historical reasons L is usually spelled
l o SS sometimes spelled like that too I
just call it locally weighted regression
so here's the idea
and um this will be an algorithm that
allows us to worry a little bit less
about having to choose features very
carefully
so for my motivating example let's
say
that I have a training set that looks
like this okay so this is X and that's y
um if you
run linear regression on this and you
you know fit maybe a linear function to
this and you end up with a more or less
flat straight line which is not a very
good fit to this data um you can sit
around and stare at this and try to
decide what other features to use right
so maybe you want to toss a quadratic
function but this isn't really quadratic
e so maybe you want to model this as a
you know x + X2 plus maybe some function
of s of X or something you actually sit
around and F features um and after a
while you can probably come over a set
of features the model is okay but let's
talk about an algorithm that you can use
without needing to do that
um
so
if now suppose you want to evaluate your
hypothesis H as a certain
point at a certain query Point lowercase
x okay and let's say you want to know
you want to know what's the predictive
value of y at this at this um position
of X
right so for linear
regression what we were doing was we
would
fit
Theta to
minimize you sum over I
y IUS the transpose x
i
squared and
return the trans X okay so that was
linear
regression in contrast in locally way to
linear Direction I'm going to do
something slightly different going to
look at this point
x and then I'm going to look at my data
set and take into
account only the data points that are
sort of in a little vicinity of X okay
so I'm going to look at you know where I
want to valuate my hypothesis I'm going
to look only in the in the vicinity of
of of the point this point where I want
to evaluate my hypothesis and then I'm
going to
take let's say just these few
points and I will um apply linear
regression to fill a straight line just
to this subset of the data okay I'm
using the sub term subset well let's
come back to that later
so I take this data set and I fit
straight line to it maybe I get I know
straight line like
that and what I'll do is
then evaluate this particular value of
straight line and you know that would be
the value I returned for my algorithm
okay that this this would be the
predicted value for um uh uh this would
be the value that my hypothesis
outputs in locally weight of regression
okay
[Applause]
so let me go and for let me go ahead and
formalize
that in locally ways of regression we're
going to fix
Theta to
minimize um some
ofi to minimize that
where these terms w super script I are
called
weights um and there are many possible
choic of ways I'm just going to write
one down so that's e to the minus x i -
x² over
two um and so let's look at what these
weights really are right so notice that
um suppose you have a training example
XI so that XI is very close to X so this
is
small right
then um if x i - x is small so if x i- x
is close to zero then this is e to the
minus 0 and e to the 0 is is 1 so if x i
is close to X
then wi will be close to one in other
words the weight Associated the I
training example be close to one if x i
and X are close to each other
conversely if x i -
x is
large
um then I know what would w
i zero right close to zero cool right so
this is if XR is very far from X and
this is e the minus of some large number
and E the minus some large number will
be close to zero
okay
um so the picture
is
if I'm carrying at a certain point x um
shown here on the x- axis and if my data
set you know say looks like that then
I'm going to give the points close to
this a large weight and give the points
far away a small weight um and
so for the points that are far away wi
will be close to zero and so it's as if
for the points that are far away um you
they will not contribute much at all to
this summation right so think this this
sum over I of 1 times this quadratic
term for close by points plus 0o times
this quadratic term for farway points
and so the effect of using this waiting
is that locally weight the regression
fits a set of parameters data paying
much more attention to fitting the
points close by accurately whereas of
ignoring the contribution um from from
far away points okay yeah yeah why is an
exponentially yeah let's see so turns
out there are many other waiting
functions you can use um it turns out
that there are different re different
communities of researchers that tend to
choose different choices by default um
there is a there is a somewhat of a
literature on debating what what exactly
what function to use um this of
exponential decay function is is just
happens to be a reasonably common one
that seems to a reasonable choice of
many problems but you can actually plug
in other functions as well um just
mention one side comment to that for
those of you that are familiar with you
know the the the M the um normal
distribution of the Gan distribution I'm
going say this what this formula that
written out here you know it
cosmetically looks a bit like a gan
distribution okay but this has actually
this actually has absolutely nothing to
do with Gan distributions so um this is
not it's not that you know probably if
XI is Gan or whatever this is no no such
interpretation this is just a convenient
function that happens to be a
bell-shaped function that don't endow us
with any gum semantics okay um and so in
fact well if you remember the familiar
bell-shaped Gan um again it's just the
way you end up associating with these
points is that um if you imagine putting
the sort of bell-shaped bump centered
around the position of where you want to
evaluate your hypothesis H then this is
saying this point here I'll give a
weight that's proportional to the height
of the Gan excuse me to the height of
the Bell shape function evaluated at
this point and the weight to give to
this point will be to this training
example will be proportional to that
height and so on okay and so chiny
examples are really far away get a very
small
weight
um one last small generalization to this
is that
normally there's one other parameter to
this algorithm um which I'll denote as
to um again this looks suspiciously like
the variance of a gan but this is not a
gan this is a convenient form of
function this parameter
tow is called the bandwidth
parameter and
um um informally it controls how fast
the weights fall off with distance okay
so just copy my diagram from the other
slide I
guess so if
um Tower is very small that's a qu X
then you end up choosing a fairly narrow
G excuse me a fairly narrow Bell shape
so that um the weight points the far
away far off rapidly whereas if um Tower
is
large
actually if Tower is large then you end
up
choosing um a waiting function that
falls off relatively slowly with
distance from your
query um
okay
so I hope you can therefore see
that if you apply locally weight to
linear regression to a data set that
looks like this then to ask what your
hypothesis's output is at a point like
this you end up fitting a straight line
making that prediction um to ask swi
hypothesis output is at that value you
put a straight line there and predict
that value and turns out that every time
you you try to evaluate your hypothesis
every time you ask your learning
algorithm to make a prediction for you
know how much a new houseal cost or
whatever you need to fit you need to run
a new fitting procedure and then
evaluate um this line that you fit just
at the position of um the value of x or
the position of the query where you're
trying to make a prediction okay but if
you do this you know for every point
along the x-axis then you find that
locally weight of regression is able to
out is sort a very nonlinear curve for a
data set like this
okay
um so in the problem set we're actually
going to let you play around more with
this algorithm so I won't say too much
more about it here but um before I move
on to the next topic let me let me check
what questions you have yeah it seems
like you still have the same problem
with overfitting and underfitting like
you have to choose tow like if you make
it too small y then you're yes
absolutely yes so um local weight to
regression can run into local weight to
regression is not a pen here for the
problem of overfitting or underfitting
um uh it you can still run into the same
problems with local weight of regression
um what you just said um about and and
so some some of these things are leave
you to discover for yourself in the
homework problem you you actually see
what she just
mentioned yeah it almost seems like
you're not even building a model with
this locally Rel all the data that you
originally had anyway I'm just trying to
think the original data points right so
the question is just uh what it's almost
as if you're not building a model
because you need the entire data set and
uh the other way of saying that is that
this is a non-parametric learning
algorithm um and and so this is and um I
don't know I won't I I I won't debate
whether you know are we really building
a model or not but um this is perfectly
fine so if I think when you write code
implementing locally weighted linear
regression on um on the data set I think
of that code as a whole as building your
model um so we actually use this we've
actually used this quite successfully to
model the Dynamics or autonomous
helicopter for
instance yeah yeah the variance of this
algorithm that uh learn the weight based
on the data um learn what weight oh the
waist wi using exp I see yes so it turns
out there are a few things you can do
one thing that's quite common is um how
to choose this bandwidth parameter towel
right as as using a data we should talk
about that a bit later when we talk
about model
selection one last
question you add the constants then you
can make it then oh I guess um let's see
boy the weights are not random variables
and is not for the purpose of this
algorithm is not useful to endow with
probabilistic semantics so if you could
choose to Define things as Galan but it
so doesn't lead anywhere um in
fact uh it turns out that um I happen to
choose this bell-shaped function um for
to Define my ways is actually fine to
choose a function that doesn't even
integrate to one that integrates to
Infinity say as your waiting function
um and so in that sense you know I mean
you could you could force in the
definition of Gan but it's s of not
useful especially since you use other
functions that that integrate to
Infinity don't integrate to one okay
it's last question I should move on
assume that the we have a very huge set
of data for example very huge set of
houses and we want to predict the label
for each house so we should run the
algorithm for each input and I think it
is very
yeah yeah you're actually right so um
because lowly weight to regression is um
this non-parametric algor them every
time you make a prediction you need to
fit Theta to your entire training set
again um so you're absolutely right for
if you have a very large training set
then this is a somewhat expensive algor
to use because every time you want to
make a prediction you need to fit you
know a straight line to to to a huge
data set to gain um turns out there are
algorithms that uh turns out their ways
to make this much more efficient for
launch data sets as well um so they want
to talk about that if if you're
interested look up the work of Andrew
Moore on KD trees um so figured out ways
to fit these models much more
efficiently that's not something I want
to go into today okay let me let me move
on let's take more questions later
um
so okay
[Applause]
so those was locally weight of
regression
um remember the outline I had I guess at
the beginning of this lecture what I
want to do now is um talk about a
probabilistic interpretation of linear
regression right and in particular it it
will be this probabilistic
interpretation that lets us move on to
um talk about logistic regression which
would be our first classification
algorithm
so um
let's put aside locally weight to
regression for now we just talk about
ordinary you know unweighted linear
regression and let's ask the question of
um why these squares right of of all the
things we could
optimize how do we come up with this
criteria for minimizing the square of
the error between uh the predictions of
the hypoth proces and and the values why
predicted so why not minimize you know
the absolute value of the errors or or
the errors to the power of four or
something um what I'm going to do now is
present one set of assumptions that will
serve to quote justify why we're
minimizing the sum of squares eror okay
um it turns out that there are many
assumptions that are sufficient to
justify why we do these squares and this
is just one of them um so so you know
just just be clear present one set of
assumptions under which these squares
regression makes sense um but this is
not the only set of assumptions so even
in the assumptions I I described don't
hold these squares actually still make
sense in many circumstances but this
will may help you give one
rationalization like one reason for
doing these squares
regression
um and in particular what I'm going to
do is um endow the Le squares model with
probable six semantics and
so let's assume in our example
predicting housing prices that the the
price of the house is sold
for is going to be some linear function
of the
features plus um some term Epsilon
I okay and Epsilon I will be you know
our error term um you think of the error
term as capturing unmodeled effects like
that maybe there's some other features
of a house like maybe how many
fireplaces it has or whether is a garden
or whatever that there are uh additional
features that we just failed to capture
or you can think of Epsilon as random
noise okay so Epsilon is our error term
that captures both these unmodeled
effects um just things we forgot to
model maybe the function isn't quite
linear or something um as well as um as
well as random noise like maybe that day
the seller was in a really bad mood and
so you know he sold it he just refused
to go for reasonable price I think
um and
now I'll assume that the errors have um
a
probabilistic have a probability
distribution I'll assume that the errors
Epsilon I are distributed this totally
uh Den notes Epsilon I is distributed
according to a probability
distribution that's a gan distribution
with mean z and variant Sigma squ okay
so I'm going to use script n here um n
stands for normal right to denote the
normal distribution also known as the
Gan distribution with me Z and coant
sigma
squ um actually just quickly raise your
hand if you see a gan distributions of
all okay cool most of you great almost
everyone
so in other words um the density for Gan
most you seen this before the density
for Epsilon I will be one of
2 pi
Sigma e to
Theon s over 2
squ right and
uh the density for Epsilon I will be
this bell-shaped curve
with you know the um with one standard
deviation um being of Sigma
okay um this is form for that Bell shape
curve so let's see take
that eras the
board okay
so this implies
that
um the probability distribution of a
price of
house given XI and the parameters steta
that this is going to be gan
with that
density okay um another way of saying
this is that the price of a
house you know given um the features of
the house and a parameters
sta this is going to be a random
variable that's distributed
Gan with mean the transpose X
only and Varan Sigma squ right because
we we we imagine that um the way the
housing price is generated is that you
know the price of a house um is equal to
Theta transpose XI and then plus some
random Galaxy noise with variance Sigma
squ and so the price of a house is going
to be have mean say the transal 6 I in
Sigma
squ right does this make sense can you
raise your hand if this make
sense um yeah okay most of
you um
um in point of notation oh yes we don't
know anything about the arrow why do you
assume here error is a go right so um
boy yeah so part of the uh what is
it why does seem the eror is Gan um two
reasons right one is turns out to be
mathematically convenient to do so um
and the other is um I don't know I could
also Mumble about justification such as
things of the central limit theorem it
turns out that if you for the vast
majority of problems if you apply a
linear regression model like this and
try to measure the distribution of the
errors not all the time but very often
you find that the errors really are Gan
that that just of Gan model is a good
assumption for the error of um in in
regression problems like these um some
of you may have heard of the central
limit theorem which says that the sum of
many independent random variables would
tend towards the gum so if the error is
caused by many effects like you know the
mood of the seller the mood of the buyer
some other features that we miss whether
the place has a garden or not and if all
of these effects are independent then by
the central limit theorem you might be
inclined to believe that you know the
sum of all of these effects will be
approximately Gan but in practice I
guess the two real answers are that one
in practice this is actually a
reasonably accurate assumption
um and two is it turns out to be
mathematically convenient to do so okay
um yeah seems like we're saying if we
assume the error around our model has
zero mean then the error is centered
around our model which it seems almost
like we're trying to assume what we're
trying to prove um let's let's let's
delate to what I'm trying to prove but
yes we are assuming that the error has
zero mean which is yeah right um
I think maybe I suspect later this qu
we'll get to some of the other things
but so for now think of this as a
mathematic is actually not an
unreasonable assumption um I guess you
know in in in in machine learning all
the all the assumptions we make are
almost never true in in in the absolute
sense right because for instance um
housing prices are priced to Dollars and
cents and so the error will be you know
errors in prices are not continuous
value random variables because um houses
can only be priced at a certain number
of dollars a certain number of cents and
you never have fractions of cents in in
housing prices whereas a ging random
variable W so in that sense assumptions
we make are never quote absolutely true
but for practical purposes this is
a accurate enough assumption that it'll
be it'll be useful to make it okay um
maybe I think in yeah I think in a week
or two we actually come back to say a
bit more about the source of assumptions
we make and when they help our loading
algorithms and when when they hurt our
learning algorithm we'll do that we'll
say a bit more about when we talk about
generative and discriminative learning
algorithms like in a in a week or
two
um okay so let just point out one one
one bit of notation which is that um
when I wrote this down I actually wrote
P of Yi given XI and then semicolon
Theta and I'm going to use this notation
when we are not thinking of theta as a
random variable so in statistics this
sometimes called the frequences point of
view where we think of there as being
some s of true value of theta that's out
there that's generating the data say but
um you know we don't know what Theta is
but Theta is not a random variable right
so it's not it's not like there's some
random value of theta out there is that
Theta is the some true value of theta
out there it's just that we don't know
what the value of theta is so if Theta
is not a random variable then I'm going
to avoid writing p y i given x i comma
Theta because this would mean the
probability of Yi conditioned on X and
Theta and you can only you know
condition on random variables um so at
least for this part of the class where
we're taking so the frequencies
Viewpoint rather than a basian Viewpoint
in this point class we're thinking of
theta not as a random variable but just
as something we're trying to estimate I
use the semicolon notation and so the
way to read this is this is the
probability of Yi given XI and and
parameterized by Theta okay so you read
the semicolon as parameterized by and
the same way here I'll say y i given XI
parameterized by Theta is distributed
galum with
that um all
[Applause]
[Music]
right so
um let me going and make one more
assumption going to
assume that the error terms
are
um
IID okay which stands for independently
and identically distributed so just
going to assume that the error terms are
independent of each other
right the identically distributed part
just means that I'm assuming they all
come from the same Gan distribution with
the same
variance um but but the more important
part of this is I'm assuming that the
Epsilon I are independent of each
other now let talk about how to fit a
model
the probability of Y given X
parameterized by
Theta um I'm actually going to give this
another name I'm going to write this
down I'm going to call this the
likelihood of theta as the probability
of Y given xeriz by
Theta and so this is going to be the
product over my training
set that
um which is in turn going to
be a product of those gussian densities
I wrote down just
now
right
okay um again in in point of notation I
guess I defined this term here to be the
likelihood of theta and the likelihood
of theta is just you know the
probability of the data y right given x
and parze by Theta um the terms
likelihood and probability are often
confused and um so the likelihood of the
of theta is the same thing as the
probability of the data you saw and so
likelihood and probably I Sol the same
thing except that when I use the term
likelihood I'm trying to emphasize that
you know I'm taking this thing and
viewing it as a function of theta okay
so um so like likelihood and probability
they're really the same thing except
that when I want to view this thing as a
function of theta holding X and Y fixed
I'll then call the likelihood okay um so
hopefully you hear me say the likelihood
of the parameters and the probability of
the data right rather than likelihood of
the data or probity parameters so so try
use try to be consistent in that
terminology um
so given that the probability of the
data is this and this is also the
likelihood of the parameters um how do
you estimate the parameters data so
given a training set what parameters
data do you want to choose for your
model
well um
the uh principle of Maximum likelihood
estimation says
that right um you can choose the value
of theta that makes the data as like as
probable as possible right so choose
Theta to
maximize the
likelihood or another words choose the
parameters that make the data as as
probable as possible right so this is
maximum likely estimation from s six
says choose the parameters that you know
makes it as likely as probable as
possible for me to have seen the data I
just
did um and
so for mathematical convenience let me
Define lowercase L of
theta um this is called the log
likelihood function and it's just log of
you know
L of of capital L of
theta so this is log of product over
I 2
Sigma e to the that and I won't I won't
bother to write out what's in the
exponent for now it's just same as from
the previous
board um log of the product is the same
as the sum of the logs right so this is
sum of the logs of
um which simplifies to M
* 1 / < TK 2
piun
Sigma
plus and then log of exponentiation
cancel each other log of e of something
is just whatever is inside the exponent
so um
oh you know what write this on the
export okay
minus okay
so on
maximizing maximizing the likelihood I'm
maximizing the log likelihood is the
same
as
minimizing that term over
there
um well you get it right um because it's
a minus sign so maximizing this because
of the minus sign is the same as
minimizing this as a function of
theta
and this is of course
just the same quadratic cost function
that we had last time J of
theta
right um and so what we've just shown is
that the ordinary Le squares algorithm
that that we worked on in the previous
lecture is just maximum
likelihood assuming this probabilistic
model um assuming this assuming IID Gan
errors on our
data
okay
um one thing that we'll actually revisit
um in the next lecture notice that the
value of Sigma squar doesn't matter
right that somehow no matter what the
value of Sigma square is Sigma square
has to be a positive number it's the
variance of Galan so but no matter what
Sigma squ is you know so long as it's
positive number the value of theta we
end up with um will be the same right so
because yeah minimizing this you get the
same value of theta no matter what Sigma
square is so it's as if in this model
the value of Sigma Square doesn't really
matter um and we we just just remember
that for the next lecture we'll come
back to this again um the questions
about
this actually let me let me clean
another couple of boards and I'll see
what questions you have
that
too okay there questions yeah here uh I
think here you try to measure the uh the
lik ni
OFA uh by by a function of error but but
I think but I think it's not a good
measure because because it depends on
the family of SATA too for example if we
have a lot of parameters we have problem
with
overfitting uh yeah yeah I think you're
asking about overfitting whether this is
good model I think let's the things the
things you're mentioning are um maybe
deeper questions about learning
algorithms that that come back to this
that will come back to later so don't
really want to get into that right
now other questions
yeah okay
so um this endows um linear regression
with a probabilistic
interpretation and I'm actually going to
use this probab use a this sort of
probabilistic interpretation in order to
derive our next learning algorithm which
will be our first classification
algorithm okay so
um you recall that I said that you
regression problems are where the
variable y you're trying to predict is
continuous values um now I'm actually
going to talk about our first
classification problem where um the
value why you're trying to predict will
be discrete value you can take on only a
small number of discrete values and in
this case I'll talk about binary
classification where um y takes on only
two values right so you come up with
classification problems if you're trying
to do say medical diagnosis and try to
decide you know based on some features
um if a patient has has a disease or
does not have a disease um or if in
housing example maybe trying to decide
will this house sell in the next 6
months or not and the answer is either
yes or no it'll either be soell in the
next six months or it won't be um other
standard examples you if you want to
build a spam filter is this email spam
or not is yes or no or um if you you
know some of my colleagues are
interested in um predicting whether a
computer system will crash so you know
it's have learning a to predict will
this Computing cluster crash within the
next 24 hours and again there yes or no
answer um
so that's X that's Y and so in the
classification
problem y takes on two values zero and
one let's say in binary
classification um so what can you do
well one thing you could do is take
linear regression as we've described it
so far and apply it to this problem
right so you you know given this data
set you can fit a straight line to it
maybe you get that straight line right
and but this and this this data set I've
drawn right is an amazingly easy
classification problem it's pretty
obvious you know to all of us that right
the relationship between X and Y is well
you just look at a value around here and
if it's to the right Y is one it's to
the left and Y is zero so apply linear
regression to this data set and you get
a Reas more fit and you can then maybe
take your linear regression hypothesis
the straight line and you know fresh
holding at 0.5 and if you do that you
still get the right answer you predict
that you know if Y is if if x is to the
right of of s a midpoint here then Y is
one and if x to the left of that
midpoint then Y is
zero um so some people actually do this
apply linear regression to
classification problems and sometimes
it'll work okay but in general it's
actually pretty bad idea to apply linear
regression to um classification problem
like these and and here's
why let's say I change my training set
by giving you just one more training
example all the way out there right um
imagine if given this training set is
actually still entirely obvious what the
relationship between X and Y is right
it's just take this value it's greater
than y is one if it's less than y is
zero by telling you you know that by
giving you this additional training
example it really shouldn't change
anything I mean like I didn't really
convey much new information there's no
surprise that this corresponds to y
equal 1 but if you now fit linear
regression to this data set you end up
with I don't know maybe a line that
looks like
that right and now the
predictions of your hypothesis have
changed completely if you threshold your
hypothesis at yal
0.5 okay so in between there might be an
interval where it's zero right
Point Oh you mean like that yeah yeah
yeah yeah sure give data set like that
same thing so I guess this this is just
yes you're right but this is this is
this this is an example and this example
works that would change even more oh you
gave it all yeah then I think this
actually make it even worse we actually
get a line that pulls down even further
right so this is my example I get to
make it whatever I want right
but but the point of this is is there's
no deep meaning to this the point of
this is just that you know it could be a
really bad idea to apply linear
regression to classification problem and
sometimes it work fine but but usually I
wouldn't do
it um so a couple problems with this one
is that well so so what do we want to do
for classification um you know if you
know the value of
y lies between zero and one then um to
try to fix this problem let's just start
by
changing the form of a hypothesis so
that my
hypothesis always lies in the unit
interval between zero and one okay um so
if if I know why is either zero or one
then let's at least not have my
hypothesis predict values much larger
than one or much smaller than
zero and so I'm going to instead of
choosing a linear function for my
hypothesis I'm going to choose something
slly
different and in particular I'm going to
choose this function H subscrip Theta of
X is going to be equal to G of theta
transpose
X where um G is going to be this
function um and so this becomes 1/ 1 + e
to th transv X okay and um G of Z Z is
called the sigmoid
[Music]
function and is often also called the
logistic
function it goes by either of these
names um and what G of Z looks like is
the following
so on the horizontal axis I'm going to
plot Z and so G of
Z will look like this okay I didn't draw
that very
well okay so G of Z tends towards zero
as Z becomes very small and G of Z will
ASM toote towards one as Z becomes large
and it crosses the vertical axis at 0.5
so this is what the sigo function also
called the logistic function of s yeah
sigo another step five say that again
why we cannot choose a step faction
isn't like that's better the binary yeah
let me come back to later so it turns
out why where did I get this function
from right where how did I I mean I just
wrote down this function it actually
turns out that there are two reasons for
using this function that will come to
one is um when we talk about generalized
line models we'll see that this falls
out naturally as as part of a broader CL
of models um and another reason that
we'll talk about uh next week is it
turns out there are a couple of I think
very beautiful reason reasons for why we
choose the logistic function so we'll
see that in a little bit but for now let
me just you know Define it and and just
take my word for it for now that this is
a reasonable Choice okay um but notice
now that my the the the values output by
my hypothesis will always be between
zero and
one um and further all just like we did
for linear regression I'm going to endow
the outputs of my hypothesis with a
probabilistic interpretation right so
I'm going to assume that the probability
that Y is equal to 1 given x and
parameterized by
Theta that's equal to H subscript Theta
of X right so in other words I'm going
to imagine that you know my hypothesis
is outputting all these numbers that lie
between 0o and one I'm going to think of
my hypothesis as trying to estimate the
probability that Y is equal to
one
okay um and
because and because y has to be either
zero or one then the probability of Y is
equal Z is going to be
that all right
um so more simply it turns out actually
take these two equations and write them
more
compactly I'm going to write P of Y
given
X parameterized by
Theta this is going to be each subscript
Theta of x to the power of
y * 1 - h of X to^ of 1 minus y okay so
I know this looks somewhat bizarre but
this this actually makes the derivation
much much nicer so Y is equal to 1 then
this equation is you know h of x to the^
of 1 times something to the power of
zero so anything to the power of zero is
just one right so y equals 1 then this
is something to the power of zero and so
this is just one and so if y = 1 this is
just saying P of Y = 1 is equal to H
subscript Theta of
X and in the same way if Y is equal to
zero then you know this is p of y equal
0 equals this thing to the^ zero and so
this disappears this is just one times
this thing to the power of one okay so
this is a compact way of writing both of
these equations um you know together
into one line
um so let's talk about parameter fitting
right and again we can ask um well given
this model of my data how do I fit the
parameters theeta of my model um so the
likelihood of the parameters is as
before it's just the probability of
data right which
is product over i p ofy
i given x
i parameterized by
Theta which is just plugging this
in okay and I Dr I dropped this Theta
subscript just so you can write a little
bit
less oh excuse me you should be x i and
y eyes
[Applause]
okay so
um as before let's say we want to find
the maximum likelihood at estimate of
the parameters Theta so we want to find
the set of the parameters Theta that
maximizes the likelihood um L of
theta
um it turns out that very often you know
just when you work out the derivations
it turns out it's often much easier to
maximize the log of the likelihood
rather than maximize the likelihood um
and so the log likelihood L of theta
just log of capital L this will
therefore be sum
of
this
um shoot
okay and so to fit the parameters sta of
our model we'll um find some find the
value of theta that maximizes this log
likelihood
yeah say that
again oh yes thank
you
thanks so how do you maximize this
function well it turns out we can
actually apply
um the same gradient descent algorithm
that we learned that was the first
algorithm we we we used to minimize the
quadratic function remember when we
talked about Le squares um the first
algor we used to minimize the quadratic
error function was grade in descent and
so we can actually use exactly the same
algorithm to maximize the log
likelihood um and you remember that
algorithm was just you repeatedly take
the value of
theta and you replace it with the
previous value of theta plus um a
learning rate Alpha
times the gradient of you know the cost
function the log likelihood with respect
to Theta okay one small change is that
because um previously we were trying to
minimize the quadratic sum of the
quadratic error term today we're trying
to maximize rather than minimize so
rather than having a minus sign we have
a plus sign so this is just you great in
great in descents but for maximum a
rather than a minimization and so we
actually call this gradient Ascent it's
really the same
algorithm
um so to figure out what thises gradient
so in order to derive gradient descent
um what you need to do is you know
compute the partial derivatives of your
objective function with respect to each
of your parameters Thea right so um and
it turns out that
if you actually compute this partial
derivative um so if you take this
formula this L of theta which is oh got
that wrong too if you take this
lowercase L of theta if you take the log
likelihood of theta and if you take his
derivative take his partial derivative
with respect to Theta I um you find that
um this is equal to
let's
see okay and um I don't know the
derivation isn't tery complicated but
but in the interest of so of saving you
watch me write down the cover of black
bols W math I just right down the final
answer but the way you get this is just
take this plug in the definition for X
subscript Theta as a function of XI and
and take derivatives and work for the
algebra and it turns out it'll simplify
down to this
formula
okay um and
so what that gives you is that gradient
Ascent is the following rule Theta J
gets updated as Theta J Plus
Alpha comes
this
okay does this look familiar to
anyone do you remember seeing this
formula at the last
lecture right
so when I worked out bash Graden descent
for Le squares
regression um I actually wrote down
exactly the same I actually wrote down
you know I actually wrote down exactly
the same thing or maybe there was a
minus sign and and those was also
flipped but I actually had exactly the
same learning rule last time for Le
squares
regression
right so I don't know is this the same
learning algorithm then so what's
different how come I was making all that
noise earlier about these regression
being a bad idea for classification
problems and then you know I did a bunch
of math and I skipped some steps but but
I'm sort of claiming that you end up
with really the same learning
algorithm right
okay exactly right so is saying this is
not the same right and the reason is in
logistic
regression this is different from before
right the definition of this H subscript
Theta of XI is not the same as the
definition I was using in the previous
lecture and in particular this is no
longer Theta transvers this is not the
linear function anymore this is um this
is a logistic function of theta trans
sign okay so even though this looks you
know cosmetically similar even though
this looks similar on the surface to um
The bashra Descent r i derived last time
for the squares regression this is
actually a totally different learning
algorithm okay and it turns out that
there's actually no coincidence that you
ended up with the same learning rule
well and and we'll actually talk talk a
bit more about this later when we talk
about generalized linear models um but
this is one of the this is one of the
most elegant results of generalized
learning models that we'll see later
that even though we're using a different
model you actually ended up with you
know what looks like the same learning
algorithm and there's actually no
coincidence um
one last comment as as part of a a
learning process um over here you know I
said I take the derivatives and I end up
ended up with this line um I didn't want
to um you make you sit through a long
algebraic derivation but later today or
later this week please do go home and
look at the lecture notes uh where you I
wrote out the entirety of this
derivation in full and make sure you can
follow every single step of how we take
partial derivatives of this likelihood
to get this formul over here okay um by
the way for those you interested in you
seriously monstering machine learning
material um when we go home and look for
the Leon Nails it it will actually be
very easy for most of you to look for
the Leon nails and read through every
line and go yep that makes sense that
makes sense that makes sense that makes
sense and so say okay cool I see how you
get this line um you want to make sure
you really understand the material my
concrete suggestion to you will be to go
home refill the lecture knows and check
every line and then to cover up the
derivation and see if you can derive
this yourself right so in general that's
that's a usually good advice for
studying technical material like machine
learning which is if you work for a
proof If you think you understood every
line um the way to make sure you really
understood it is to cover it up and see
if you can rederive the entire thing
yourself this is actually a great way
for I did this a lot when I was trying
to study very various pieces of machine
learning you know Theory and various
proofs and this is actually a great way
to study which is cover up to cover up
the derivations and see if you can do it
yourself without looking at the original
derivation
okay
um all
right I probably won't get to Newton's
method today I just want to say take one
quick digression to talk
about um want to take one quick
digression to talk about one more
algorithm um which was this question
sort of alluding to this
earlier which is the perceptron
algorithm right so um I'm not going to
say a whole lot about the perceptron Alm
but this is something that we'll come
back to later later this quarter we talk
about learning theory um so you know in
logistic regression we said said that g
of Z output the my hypothesis output
values that were real numbers between 0
and one um the question is what if you
want to force G of Z to output value to
Output either zero either or output
either zero or one right so um the
perceptron algorithm defines G of Z to
be
this so the picture is theun is rather
than the smooth sigmo function you
know G of Z now looks like the step
function that that you're asking about
earlier um and same as before we can use
H substitute th of x equals g
of Thea transvers X okay so it's
actually everything's ex exactly the
same as before except that g of Z is now
the step function um it turns out
there's this learning rule called the
perceptual learning rule that's actually
even the same as stochastic gradient
Ascent for logistic
regression and the learning rule is
given by
this okay so it looks you know just like
the
uh GR in sense rule um or really the
stochastic gr sense rule for logistic
regression um
so this is very different flavor of
algorithm than Le squares regression
logistic regression um and in particular
because it outputs only values that
either zero or one turns out it's very
difficult to endow this algorithm with
probabilistic semantics um and this is
again even though
ohc um excuse
me right there okay and even though this
learning rule looks again looks
cosmetically very similar to what we
have logistic regression this is
actually a very different type of
learning role um than than the others
that we seen in this class and so um
because this is you know so such a
simple learning algorithm it just
compute Theta transpose X and then you
threshhold and you outut 0o one this is
um relatively simpler algor than
logistic regression I think and um when
we talk about learning theory later in
this class the Simplicity of this
algorithm will let us come back and use
it as a as a building block okay but um
that's I want to say about the Z for
now um